README.md, before:

# CS232-Lab3

VIVA will be conducted for this Lab.

## Instructions for Mac Users:
* Install Rosetta:
```
/usr/sbin/softwareupdate --install-rosetta --agree-to-license
```
* Open Docker desktop and start the CS251 container
* Docker:
``` 
sudo docker start cs251
sudo docker exec -it cs251 /bin/bash
```
* Navigate to the `host` Directory, which is a shared folder for your local machine and the docker container.
* Navigate to the `Lab3` directory, which is a clone of the Github repo.
* For Q1, just run the binaries(`./part_a`, `./part_b`, `./part_c`)
* Download the `nasm` binary in the repo, inside the `Q4` folder in your local machine
* Inside Docker, go to the Q4 directory, run the following:
```
    chmod +x nasm
    export PATH=$PATH:/host/Lab3/Q4
    nasm -v # This should give version number if correctly installed
    make # This should run successfully, if correctly installed
```

## Tutorial Videos:
* [Youtube Tutorial 1](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tzkwW2SXWmQ)
* [Youtube Tutorial 2](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9sumRfIgaHs)
* [Youtube Tutorial 3](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9if9kS92Ha8)

## Reading Material:
* [Presentation from the video](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/16KDDNamMbnK1UpsAikwRhXRHEFm2Guj8dgiY6tPH8Kk/edit?usp=sharing)
* [System calls in MIPS](https://courses.missouristate.edu/kenvollmar/mars/help/syscallhelp.html)
* [MIPS Cheat Sheet](https://inst.eecs.berkeley.edu/~cs61c/resources/MIPS_Green_Sheet.pdf)
* [Regsiters & Memory in x86](https://en.wikibooks.org/wiki/X86_Assembly/X86_Architecture)
* [System calls for Linux in x86](https://blog.rchapman.org/posts/Linux_System_Call_Table_for_x86_64/)
* [NASM Tutorial](https://cs.lmu.edu/~ray/notes/nasmtutorial/)
* [x86 Instruction cheatsheet](https://www.felixcloutier.com/x86/)

## Questions:
* [Q1](Q1/README.md)
* [Q2](Q2/README.md)
* [Q3](Q3/README.md)
* [Q4](Q4/README.md)

## Installation Instructions:

### nasm
```
wget http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/n/nasm/nasm_2.15.05-1_amd64.deb
sudo apt install nasm_2.15.05-1_amd64.deb
```

### spim
```
sudo apt-get install spim
```

## Submission Instructions:
* Clone this repo, name it as `{roll_number}_cs232_lab3`
* <span style="color:red">Make sure to keep your repo as `private` (It's your responsibility to keep it private, we will not be responsible for any plagiarism/loss of marks due to this)</span>
* Final submission structure should look like this:
```
{roll_number}_cs232_lab3
├── Q2
│   ├── inverse.s
├── Q3
│   ├── inplacemergesort.s
├── Q4
│   ├── io.asm
│   ├── Makefile
│   ├── matrix-multiplcation-testbench.asm
│   ├── matrix-multiplication-ijk.asm
│   ├── matrix-multiplication-ikj.asm
│   ├── matrix-multiplication-jik.asm
│   ├── matrix-multiplication-jki.asm
│   ├── matrix-multiplication-kij.asm
│   ├── matrix-multiplication-kji.asm
│   ├── memory-test.asm
├── {roll_number}-report.pdf
```
* You need to submit a pdf report named `{roll_number}-report.pdf` containing the details required by the questions.
* Submit a compressed file `{roll_number}_cs232_lab3.tar.gz`
* Here, `{roll_number}` is your roll number.

Commit message:

added instructions to run spim

README.md, after:

# CS232-Lab3

VIVA will be conducted for this Lab.

## Instructions for Mac Users:
* Install Rosetta:
```
/usr/sbin/softwareupdate --install-rosetta --agree-to-license
```
* Open Docker desktop and start the CS251 container
* Docker:
``` 
sudo docker start cs251
sudo docker exec -it cs251 /bin/bash
```
* Navigate to the `host` Directory, which is a shared folder for your local machine and the docker container.
* Navigate to the `Lab3` directory, which is a clone of the Github repo.
* For Q1, just run the binaries(`./part_a`, `./part_b`, `./part_c`)
* Download the `nasm` binary in the repo, inside the `Q4` folder in your local machine
* Inside Docker, go to the Q4 directory, run the following:
```
    chmod +x nasm
    export PATH=$PATH:/host/Lab3/Q4
    nasm -v # This should give version number if correctly installed
    make # This should run successfully, if correctly installed
```

## Using spim inside docker: 
* Docker:
``` 
sudo docker start cs251
sudo docker exec -it cs251 /bin/bash
```
* Navigate to the `host` Directory, which is a shared folder for your local machine and the docker container.
* Download the `spim` binary and `exceptions.s` file in the repo, to the `Lab3` directory.
* Navigate to the `Lab3` directory inside the docker container.
* Run the following:
```
    chmod +x spim
    ./spim -exception_file exceptions.s -f <filename>.s
```

## Tutorial Videos:
* [Youtube Tutorial 1](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tzkwW2SXWmQ)
* [Youtube Tutorial 2](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9sumRfIgaHs)
* [Youtube Tutorial 3](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9if9kS92Ha8)

## Reading Material:
* [Presentation from the video](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/16KDDNamMbnK1UpsAikwRhXRHEFm2Guj8dgiY6tPH8Kk/edit?usp=sharing)
* [System calls in MIPS](https://courses.missouristate.edu/kenvollmar/mars/help/syscallhelp.html)
* [MIPS Cheat Sheet](https://inst.eecs.berkeley.edu/~cs61c/resources/MIPS_Green_Sheet.pdf)
* [Regsiters & Memory in x86](https://en.wikibooks.org/wiki/X86_Assembly/X86_Architecture)
* [System calls for Linux in x86](https://blog.rchapman.org/posts/Linux_System_Call_Table_for_x86_64/)
* [NASM Tutorial](https://cs.lmu.edu/~ray/notes/nasmtutorial/)
* [x86 Instruction cheatsheet](https://www.felixcloutier.com/x86/)

## Questions:
* [Q1](Q1/README.md)
* [Q2](Q2/README.md)
* [Q3](Q3/README.md)
* [Q4](Q4/README.md)

## Installation Instructions:

### nasm
```
wget http://archive.ubuntu.com/ubuntu/pool/universe/n/nasm/nasm_2.15.05-1_amd64.deb
sudo apt install nasm_2.15.05-1_amd64.deb
```

### spim
```
sudo apt-get install spim
```

## Submission Instructions:
* Clone this repo, name it as `{roll_number}_cs232_lab3`
* <span style="color:red">Make sure to keep your repo as `private` (It's your responsibility to keep it private, we will not be responsible for any plagiarism/loss of marks due to this)</span>
* Final submission structure should look like this:
```
{roll_number}_cs232_lab3
├── Q2
│   ├── inverse.s
├── Q3
│   ├── inplacemergesort.s
├── Q4
│   ├── io.asm
│   ├── Makefile
│   ├── matrix-multiplcation-testbench.asm
│   ├── matrix-multiplication-ijk.asm
│   ├── matrix-multiplication-ikj.asm
│   ├── matrix-multiplication-jik.asm
│   ├── matrix-multiplication-jki.asm
│   ├── matrix-multiplication-kij.asm
│   ├── matrix-multiplication-kji.asm
│   ├── memory-test.asm
├── {roll_number}-report.pdf
```
* You need to submit a pdf report named `{roll_number}-report.pdf` containing the details required by the questions.
* Submit a compressed file `{roll_number}_cs232_lab3.tar.gz`
* Here, `{roll_number}` is your roll number.
